This morning I'd like to
talk about some good news
and some bad news as we
confront our economic crisis.
The bad news is well known to
Americans across our country
as we continue to struggle
through unprecedented
economic turmoil.
Yesterday we learned
that our economy shrank
by nearly 4 percent from
October through December.
That decline was the largest
in over a quarter century,
and it underscores
the seriousness
of the economic crisis that
my administration found
when we took office.
Already the slowdown has
cost us tens of thousands
of jobs in January alone.
And the picture is likely
to get worse before
it gets better.
Make no mistake, these
are not just numbers.
Behind every statistic
there's a story.
Many Americans have seen their
lives turned upside down.
Families have been forced
to make painful choices.
Parents are struggling
to pay the bills.
Patients can't afford care.
Students can't keep
pace with tuition.
And workers don't know whether
their retirement will be
dignified and secure.
The good news is that we are
moving forward with a sense
of urgency equal
to the challenge.
This week the House passed
the American Recovery
and Reinvestment Plan, which
will save or create more
than 3 million jobs
over the next few years.
It puts a tax cut into the
pockets of working families,
and places a down payment on
America's future by investing
in energy independence
and education,
affordable health care, and
American infrastructure.
Now this recovery plan
moves to the Senate.
I will continue working
with both parties
so that the strongest
possible bill gets to my desk.
With the stakes so high we
simply cannot afford the same
old gridlock and partisan
posturing in Washington.
It's time to move
in a new direction.
Americans know that our
economic recovery will take
years -- not months.
But they will have little
patience if we allow politics
to get in the way of action,
and our economy
continues to slide.
That's why I am calling on
the Senate to pass this plan,
so that we can put people back
to work and begin the long,
hard work of lifting our
economy out of this crisis.
No one bill, no matter
how comprehensive,
can cure what ails our economy.
So just as we jumpstart job
creation, we must also ensure
that markets are stable,
credit is flowing,
and families can
stay in their homes.
Last year Congress
passed a plan
to rescue the financial system.
While the package helped
avoid a financial collapse,
many are frustrated by the
results -- and rightfully so.
Too often taxpayer
dollars have been spent
without transparency
or accountability.
Banks have been extended a
hand, but homeowners, students,
and small businesses that
need loans have been left
to fend on their own.
And adding to this outrage,
we learned this week that even
as they petitioned for
taxpayer assistance,
Wall Street firms
shamefully paid
out nearly $20 billion
in bonuses for 2008.
While I'm committed
to doing what it takes
to maintain the flow of credit,
the American people will
not excuse or tolerate
such arrogance and greed.
The road to recovery demands
that we all act responsibly,
from Main Street to
Washington to Wall Street.
Soon my Treasury
Secretary, Tim Geithner,
will announce a new strategy
for reviving our financial
system that gets credit flowing
to businesses and families.
We'll help lower mortgage
costs and extend loans
to small businesses so
they can create jobs.
We'll ensure that CEOs
are not draining funds
that should be advancing
our recovery.
And we will insist on
unprecedented transparency,
rigorous oversight, and
clear accountability --
so taxpayers know how
their money is being spent
and whether it is
achieving results.
Rarely in history has our
country faced economic problems
as devastating as this crisis.
But the strength
of the American people
compels us to come together.
The road ahead will be
long, but I promise you
that every day that I go to
work in the Oval Office I carry
with me your stories, and my
administration is dedicated
to alleviating your struggles
and advancing your dreams.
You are calling for action.
Now is the time for those
of us in Washington to live
up to our responsibilities.